Let's put aside the term asynchronous for a second and
instead think about the behavior of our programs on a thread.
Code can be either blocking or non-blocking.
When an action is blocking,
nothing else can happen until it is finished.
A non-blocking task allows the thread to move on to
other tasks while waiting for another task to finish.
This hopefully sounds familiar from the coffee shop analogy.
Let's put this into perspective with
probably the most common example for non-blocking processes, API calls.
When my application asks for information from an API,
it's just waiting for that information to come back.
Like the barista at the coffee machine,
if that request is treated as a blocking task,
then the program is just sitting on its hands waiting until the response comes back.
Asking for information from an API,
like a barista making coffee,
should be a non-blocking task so that we can make better use of our time.
You might have already started to pick up on the connection here,
but synchronous programs use blocking code,
and asynchronous programs put
non-blocking code in the places that matter to gain better performance and efficiency.
Effectively, asynchronous and non-blocking are synonyms.